we're now going to continue on the topic
of hmm so we just looked at a Victoria
example now let's see what else we can
do in hmm
so given multiple hidden Markov models
we may want to compute which hmm was
most likely to have generated a
particular observation and why do you
think this is useful well it turns out
that you can have different HMS from
different languages and then you can
decide whether the document or the
sentence is in a particular language
based on the likelihood that the
sentence was generated from each of
those particular HMS Sony's solution is
to try all the possible sequences for
each of the hmm and again this is
something that is not going to work in
practice because it's has a very high
complexity instead what we want to do is
something similar to the Viterbi
algorithm in the sense that it uses a
dynamic programming it's something
called the forward algorithm the fourth
algorithm again uses a trellis called
the forward trellis that encodes all the
possible state paths and I'm not going
to go into the math for this algorithm
but I just want to tell you that it's
again based on the Markov assumption
that the probability of being in any
state at a given time only depends on
the probabilities of being in any
particular state in the previous time
point okay so there are three different
types of learning algorithms for hmm the
first one is called supervised learning
and that's when we have the luxury of
having all of our training sequences be
labeled with parts of speech the second
class belongs to the so called
unsupervised learning category in which
case we only have training sequences
like sequences of words or sentences but
we don't have any sequences of labels or
parts of speech in this case the only
thing that we need to know is how many
states we expect to have in the hmm so
as we know the number of states in an
hmm for part of speech tagging
corresponds to the number of parts of
speech pass possibly start and end so
this is something that we can easily get
and the third category of methods for
hmm learning is called semi-supervised
learning in semi supervised learning we
have some label training data but most
of the data is not labeled we have for
example a few hundred centers that have
been manually labeled for parts of
speech and then we have millions of
millions of sentences that have not been
labeled let's first look at supervised
hmm learning we want to estimate the
transition probabilities and the
emission probabilities using maximum
likelihood estimates so very simple
method for this is to use maximum
likelihood so we count how many times
the certain set of states with two
states appears and we just divide this
by the total number of instances of the
first state and we can do the same for
observation probabilities again by
counting the number of times that a
certain word and a certain part of
speech appeared together and then define
divide this by the number of times that
particular part of speech appears and
then we can use smoothing for any unseen
conditional probabilities now more
interesting method is called
unsupervised hmm training in this case
we're given a set of observation
sequences and the goal is to build hmm
in particular to build them new model
that consists of the a B and pi matrices
the more general technique used for our
hmm training without supervision is
called the e/m algorithm yam stands for
expectation maximization and the
specific implementation of em4 hmm
training is called the BOM Welch
algorithm or forward-backward algorithm
so BOM Welch is not guaranteed to find
an exact solution for the best model
that maximizes the probability of the
observation given the model however it
often and each is a solution that is
acceptable I'm only going to go through
an outline of bone wash these guide
works we initially set all the
parameters of the hmm to random values
so in our case we had I believe 12
different parameters and then we're
going to perform a set of steps until
the set of parameters converges the two
steps are the estep and the m-step the e
step is the expectation step that is
used to determine the probability of the
various stage sequences for generating
the observations and then the M step or
the maximum
raishin step is used to reactivate the
parameters based on the probabilities
that we just observe in the e step so
very often what happens is that in a
small number of iterations probably a
few dozen or even less the set of
parameters converges and we can stop so
what if you know it's about the EMR
rhythm is that the algorithm guarantees
that every tear agent the likelihood of
the data increases and it's also
important because it can be stopped at
any point in time and give us some
reasonably acceptable partial solutions
so we don't need to wait until it
converges and it's also guaranteed to
converge to a local maximum if we let it
finish so this is a little bit of an
outline of the methods that I used with
HMS for natural language processing and
in the next lecture we're going to look
at some additional ways to do para
speech time